In this video, we are gonna convert
our project from JUnit 4 to JUnit 5. So
there's a few steps that we have to do
because right now, we started off the
project from Spring Initializr and
using all the Spring Boot goodness in
here. So right now, if I come in here and
hover over this, I'm holding down command
key on Apple to bring this up. We can see
that we are coming out of the Maven
artifact of JUnit 4. That is not
what we want. We wanna be coming out of
JUnit 5. So to do this, we're gonna have
to go through a few steps to convert
things over. Let's take a look
at the Maven POM. I'm gonna modify
both the data and web. The first
thing that we wanna do is come up here
to the spring-boot-starter-test and
we're gonna add in an exclusion.
This is setting up an exclusion for
JUnit. So if we wanna do the group as
well as the artifact
and it is conveniently named junit
junit. This tells, because the
spring-boot-starter-test right now is
still providing us the JUnit 4
implementation. So right now, August
2018, the Spring hasn't even moved over
to JUnit 5 yet. So that's why we have to
do this. At some point, Spring is going to
move to JUnit 5. When that happens,
this step won't be necessary. Actually,
the next couple of steps won't be necessary.
Here, we are setting up the dependencies
that we want to include. So that excludes
out JUnit. If I come over here a bit,
did we sync yet? Oops, we need to do the
same thing here. So that was data. I need
to do web. I'm just gonna come over
here and just do a cut and paste into
the web,
like so. When this comes in, did we
automatically update? So now, you can see
that these have gone red because we
don't have the @RunWith anymore.
So those JUnit 4 dependencies
are now removed from the application. And
now, let's go in and add in the
dependencies that we need for JUnit and
then we'll also update our test class
here a little bit. So the first
dependency, we want is a junit. We
want the jupiter-api-dependency. So this is
for JUnit 5. We can see that
IntelliJ is smart enough to autofill
that in. We are going to do a scope of
test. So that brings it and that just in
for the unit test. Then the next one
we wanna do is also
junit, the
jupiter-engine. What this is for, this is a
Maven Dependency to allow the Maven
Surefire plugin to operate properly and
we're also getting to give him the scope
of the test dependency.
I'm gonna bring this into both.
You might be able to get away with
putting this in the parent POM. But
just out of experience, I think we're
gonna need to do it here.
We could experiment with using a parent
POM but I'm pretty sure each module is
kinda need it. We can see right now,
notice that these are resolving without
a version and that is because the Spring
Boot parent POM, remember over here in
the parent, we are coming off the
spring-boot-starter-parent. This has JUnit
dependencies in it and that's where we
inherit the version so we will actually
bring in the version information from
that. So like I said, Spring at this point
time is including JUnit 4 but the
JUnit 5 dependencies are in the parent
POM so therefore we don't need to
specify the release ID specifically or
the version specifically. So the next
thing we need to do is set up the Maven
Surefire plugin. I'm gonna come
down here. Now let's just collapse
these plugins
and I'm gonna say
plugin
so we had the maven-surefire-plugin.
Right now, that's not
gonna hear from the Spring parent
POM so we do need to specify the
dependency and dot 22 is actually the
current release. You can see that
IntelliJ offered versions and I think
that's because it's not in my
local Maven cache yet.
Now we need to add in a dependency
like so.
We want junit-platform-surefire-provider
And here,
what we can actually do is, take that away
and we can work with the Spring Boot
Parent POM. We wanna use the
juit-platform-version so that this is
a variable that's gonna be resolved from
the Spring Boot Parent POM. Actually,
if I come in, we can see here, I just did
a command click on that. You can see the
Spring Boot dependencies. This is the
JUnit platform version so we're going
to be bringing the 1.1.0 release and you
can see that the JUnit Jupiter version is
5.1.1. I'm pretty sure
5.2.0 is out so there they are a minor
release behind right now. But this is
good enough for our purposes. So I'm
gonna close that out just to show
you how we can see this objects being
sourced in. Now, the last thing that we
wanna do is definitely wanna get rid
of that. Now @RunWith, it's your call
that is no longer there. We want to do
@ExtendWith
and in this case we are going to use the
SpringExtension.class. So now, this sets
up our test.
And then, the next thing is we need to
bring back in that @Test annotation
so we'll import that. You can see I
no longer need the SpringRunner. That
goes away. And now, I do a command hover,
we can see that now we are depending on
JUnit 5 here. If I come in, let's
go ahead and run those to make sure that it
runs properly.
See I'm getting some warnings but the
test is actually executing. Got our
little vizsla there.
You can see this is actually
bringing up the Spring Context so
whenever you bring up the Spring Context
like this, it does get heavy so it can
take a little bit longer that's why I
try to write the majority of my
test as true unit tests. But this is
actually an integration test. This
is just verifying that the Spring
Context does in fact load. So let's see
here. I did that.
You saw that just run
out of the web. To be honest, I've had
test run without this but the JUnit
team says that it's needed. I am gonna
provide it in both projects.
Test may run without this but I
expect that when you're in a pure, at
this, I ran the test from IntelliJ so
IntelliJ is running. IntelliJ
has excellent JUnit 5 support so that's
probably why I ran properly. Without this
plugin, when you're running from Maven, I
expect that you'd have problems. So
inside of IntelliJ, we're unhappy without
this plugin running from Maven Context.
I think you're gonna have problems
with executing the test. This plugin, the
Surefire is what runs your unit
test inside of Maven. So that's
definitely gonna needed.
Just to recap everything there, let's
take a look at the changes we made. So
let me position this up. For the
spring-boot-starter-test, we are excluding the
dependency for junit. And then on line
86 there, you can see we're bringing in
the junit-jupiter-api, as well as the
Jupiter engine, which is needed for the
Surefire plugin, and then we added in a
plug in, the maven-surefire-plugin. You
get that out of the box with Maven.
That is already there. That's one of the
things that it inherits one of the
standard plugins of Maven so
that's already there for you. We had to
add in the Surefire plugin to give it
the dependency for the
junit-platform-surefire-provider. So this, just to be clear,
this is already included with Maven but
we had to explicitly add it so we could
provide this dependency in its
configuration for the plugin
configuration so it'll run the JUnit 5
tests happily. And then, the last thing we
had to do. See if this comes up. You can
see that we formerly had @RunWith Spring
Boot SpringRunner. Now, we are doing the
@ExtendWith the JUnit 5 syntax or
JUnit 5 annotation, I should say, using
the SpringExtension class so that will
set up the SpringRunner for and that
configures the SpringContext to
allow the SpringContext to execute.
Then we have a simple test here. That is
just gonna make sure that the test
actually comes up. You can see all
the chatter that we brought up the
Spring Context. Test doesn't do anything
but the main purpose of this test that
you get out-of-the-box from the Spring
Initializr is to make sure that your
Spring Context loads, which we have
proved. So now, going forward in the
project, we'll build to use JUnit 5 test
and JUnit 4 is excluded. One thing I did
not include. If I wanted to maintain
my JUnit 4 test, I would have to
include the JUnit Vintage
Dependency, which I have not done here. So
this project will be pure JUnit 5 so I have
no need to include the JUnit 4 Vintage
dependency here. So the last thing we
wanna do is
commit this in to GitHub. Remember, we
were working against issues and way back
on July 12th, over a month and a half ago,
we had this upgrade to JUnit 5. This
is issue number four, so one of the
original issues. Planned to get to it for
a long time but now we are at the point
in the course where we can do this. So
I'm gonna go ahead and commit these
files and close this. Let's come back up
here. I come up here, right click.
So it closes number 4 and then when I
push
this, GitHub will automatically close out
that issue for us.
You can see that switched to
close.